README.md, before:

# 🤖 Ukido AI Assistant

[![Python 3.11+](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.11+-blue.svg)](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
[![FastAPI](https://img.shields.io/badge/FastAPI-0.110.0-green.svg)](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)](LICENSE)

AI-powered chatbot for Ukido soft skills school. Built with FastAPI, Gemini Router, and Claude Generator for dynamic context-aware responses to parent inquiries.

## 🎯 Features

- **Two-stage AI Architecture**: Gemini for routing + Claude for generation
- **Smart Intent Classification**: Business, social, and mixed intents handling
- **Context-Aware Responses**: Maintains conversation history (last 10 messages)
- **Fuzzy Matching**: Handles typos and variations (85% threshold)
- **Social Intelligence**: Tracks greetings, detects repeated social intents
- **Ultra-brief Query Expansion**: Contextualizes queries like "А?" from history
- **Optimized Performance**: 5-7 seconds response time, ~$0.0015 per query

## 🏗️ Architecture

### System Architecture
```mermaid
graph TB
    subgraph "Frontend"
        U[👤 Parent User]
    end
    
    subgraph "API Layer"
        API[FastAPI Server<br/>localhost:8000]
    end
    
    subgraph "AI Processing"
        R[🤖 Gemini 2.5 Flash<br/>Router & Classifier<br/>$0.30/1M tokens]
        G[🤖 Claude 3.5 Haiku<br/>Response Generator<br/>$0.25/$1.25/1M tokens]
    end
    
    subgraph "Core Components"
        SD[Social Detector<br/>50+ patterns]
        HM[History Manager<br/>10 messages]
        SS[Social State<br/>Greetings]
        SR[Social Responder]
    end
    
    subgraph "Knowledge"
        KB[(Documents<br/>9 MD files)]
    end
    
    U -->|POST /chat| API
    API -->|Process| R
    
    R --> SD
    R --> HM
    R --> SS
    R --> KB
    
    R -->|Generate| G
    G --> HM
    G --> SR
    
    API -->|JSON Response| U
    
    style U fill:#e1f5fe
    style API fill:#fff3e0
    style R fill:#f3e5f5
    style G fill:#f3e5f5
    style KB fill:#e8f5e9
```

### Request Flow
```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant U as 👤 Parent
    participant API as FastAPI
    participant R as Gemini Router
    participant G as Claude Generator
    participant DB as Knowledge Base

    U->>+API: POST /chat {"message": "..."}
    API->>+R: Process message
    
    Note over R: Check social intent<br/>Get history context
    
    R->>DB: Search relevant docs
    DB-->>R: Return documents
    
    R-->>API: RouterResponse
    
    API->>+G: Generate response
    
    Note over G: Generate with:<br/>- Social context<br/>- Course info<br/>- 100-150 words
    
    G-->>-API: Final response
    API-->>-U: {"response": "..."}
    
    Note over U: Time: 5-7 sec<br/>Cost: ~$0.0015
```

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.11+
- API Keys for OpenRouter (Claude) and Google AI (Gemini)

### Installation

1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/shao3d/Ukido_DynContInj.git
cd Ukido_DynContInj
```

2. Install dependencies:
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

3. Set up environment variables:
```bash
cp .env.example .env
# Edit .env with your API keys:
# OPENROUTER_API_KEY=your_key
# GOOGLE_API_KEY=your_key (optional, for Gemini)
```

4. Run the server:
```bash
python src/main.py
```

The API will be available at `http://localhost:8000`

## 🧪 Testing

### Interactive Sandbox
```bash
# Interactive mode
python sandbox_v2.py

# Test single message
python sandbox_v2.py -m "Привет! Какие курсы есть?"

# Run automated tests
python sandbox_v2.py --test
```

### Stress Testing
```bash
python tests/test_stress_with_report.py
```

### Dialogue Testing
```bash
python collaborative_test.py 1  # By scenario number
python collaborative_test.py "Забывчивая бабушка"  # By name
```

## 📊 Architecture Diagrams

### Processing States
```mermaid
stateDiagram-v2
    [*] --> Initial: User sends message
    Initial --> SocialCheck: Check patterns
    SocialCheck --> PureSocial: Social only
    SocialCheck --> BusinessCheck: Has business intent
    PureSocial --> QuickResponse: Generate social response
    QuickResponse --> [*]: Return immediately
    BusinessCheck --> RouterProcessing: Send to Gemini
    RouterProcessing --> Success: Valid business query
    RouterProcessing --> Offtopic: Not about school
    RouterProcessing --> NeedSimplification: Too complex
    Success --> GenerateResponse: Send to Claude
    GenerateResponse --> [*]: Return to user
```

### Query Distribution
```mermaid
pie title "Query Types Distribution"
    "Questions about courses" : 35
    "Pricing and discounts" : 25
    "Schedule" : 15
    "Teachers" : 10
    "Social (hello/thanks)" : 10
    "Offtopic" : 5
```

### Data Structure
```mermaid
erDiagram
    USER ||--o{ MESSAGE : sends
    MESSAGE ||--|| RESPONSE : generates
    MESSAGE ||--|| ROUTER_RESULT : processes
    USER ||--|| HISTORY : has
    RESPONSE }o--|| ROUTER_RESULT : uses
```

The architecture diagrams above are created using Mermaid and are automatically rendered by GitHub in the README.
For high-resolution PNG versions, check the `docs/diagrams/` folder.

## 📁 Project Structure

```
├── src/
│   ├── main.py              # FastAPI server & orchestrator
│   ├── router.py             # Gemini intent classifier
│   ├── response_generator.py # Claude response generator
│   ├── history_manager.py    # Conversation history
│   └── social_state.py       # Social intent tracking
├── data/
│   └── documents_compressed/ # Knowledge base (9 documents)
├── tests/
│   ├── integration/          # Integration tests
│   └── reports/              # Test reports
├── docs/
│   ├── architecture/         # Architecture documentation
│   └── diagrams/            # Auto-generated diagrams
└── sandbox_v2.py            # Interactive testing tool
```

## 🔧 Configuration

Key settings in `src/config.py`:
- `HISTORY_LIMIT = 10` - Messages to keep in context
- `TEMPERATURE = 0.7` - Response creativity
- `USE_QUICK_REGEX = False` - Regex pre-processing (disabled)

## 📈 Performance Metrics

- **Response Time**: 5-7 seconds average
- **Cost**: ~$0.0015 per interaction
- **Accuracy**: 95%+ intent classification
- **Context Retention**: Last 10 messages

## 🤝 Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

## 📝 Version History

- **v0.7.6** (2025-08-17): Complete project reorganization
- **v0.7.5**: First 2 sentences rule implementation
- **v0.7.4**: Simplified repetition handling
- **v0.7.0-0.7.3**: Architecture optimizations
- **v0.6.x**: Initial implementation

## 🏫 About Ukido

Ukido is a soft skills school for children aged 7-14, focusing on emotional intelligence, leadership, and communication skills development.

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- Ukido team for domain expertise
- OpenRouter for Claude API access
- Google AI for Gemini API
- FastAPI community for the excellent framework

---

**Built with ❤️ for better parent-school communication**

Commit message:

🎨 Add interactive diagrams with svg-pan-zoom
Created beautiful interactive version with:
- Tabbed navigation between 5 diagram types
- Zoom/pan controls using svg-pan-zoom library
- Responsive design with gradient background
- Mobile support (pinch to zoom)
- All diagrams render client-side with Mermaid.js

GitHub Pages URL will be:
https://shao3d.github.io/Ukido_DynContInj/

README.md, after:

# 🤖 Ukido AI Assistant

[![Python 3.11+](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.11+-blue.svg)](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
[![FastAPI](https://img.shields.io/badge/FastAPI-0.110.0-green.svg)](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)](LICENSE)

AI-powered chatbot for Ukido soft skills school. Built with FastAPI, Gemini Router, and Claude Generator for dynamic context-aware responses to parent inquiries.

## 🎯 Features

- **Two-stage AI Architecture**: Gemini for routing + Claude for generation
- **Smart Intent Classification**: Business, social, and mixed intents handling
- **Context-Aware Responses**: Maintains conversation history (last 10 messages)
- **Fuzzy Matching**: Handles typos and variations (85% threshold)
- **Social Intelligence**: Tracks greetings, detects repeated social intents
- **Ultra-brief Query Expansion**: Contextualizes queries like "А?" from history
- **Optimized Performance**: 5-7 seconds response time, ~$0.0015 per query

## 🏗️ Architecture

### System Architecture
```mermaid
graph TB
    subgraph "Frontend"
        U[👤 Parent User]
    end
    
    subgraph "API Layer"
        API[FastAPI Server<br/>localhost:8000]
    end
    
    subgraph "AI Processing"
        R[🤖 Gemini 2.5 Flash<br/>Router & Classifier<br/>$0.30/1M tokens]
        G[🤖 Claude 3.5 Haiku<br/>Response Generator<br/>$0.25/$1.25/1M tokens]
    end
    
    subgraph "Core Components"
        SD[Social Detector<br/>50+ patterns]
        HM[History Manager<br/>10 messages]
        SS[Social State<br/>Greetings]
        SR[Social Responder]
    end
    
    subgraph "Knowledge"
        KB[(Documents<br/>9 MD files)]
    end
    
    U -->|POST /chat| API
    API -->|Process| R
    
    R --> SD
    R --> HM
    R --> SS
    R --> KB
    
    R -->|Generate| G
    G --> HM
    G --> SR
    
    API -->|JSON Response| U
    
    style U fill:#e1f5fe
    style API fill:#fff3e0
    style R fill:#f3e5f5
    style G fill:#f3e5f5
    style KB fill:#e8f5e9
```

### Request Flow
```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant U as 👤 Parent
    participant API as FastAPI
    participant R as Gemini Router
    participant G as Claude Generator
    participant DB as Knowledge Base

    U->>+API: POST /chat {"message": "..."}
    API->>+R: Process message
    
    Note over R: Check social intent<br/>Get history context
    
    R->>DB: Search relevant docs
    DB-->>R: Return documents
    
    R-->>API: RouterResponse
    
    API->>+G: Generate response
    
    Note over G: Generate with:<br/>- Social context<br/>- Course info<br/>- 100-150 words
    
    G-->>-API: Final response
    API-->>-U: {"response": "..."}
    
    Note over U: Time: 5-7 sec<br/>Cost: ~$0.0015
```

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.11+
- API Keys for OpenRouter (Claude) and Google AI (Gemini)

### Installation

1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/shao3d/Ukido_DynContInj.git
cd Ukido_DynContInj
```

2. Install dependencies:
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

3. Set up environment variables:
```bash
cp .env.example .env
# Edit .env with your API keys:
# OPENROUTER_API_KEY=your_key
# GOOGLE_API_KEY=your_key (optional, for Gemini)
```

4. Run the server:
```bash
python src/main.py
```

The API will be available at `http://localhost:8000`

## 🧪 Testing

### Interactive Sandbox
```bash
# Interactive mode
python sandbox_v2.py

# Test single message
python sandbox_v2.py -m "Привет! Какие курсы есть?"

# Run automated tests
python sandbox_v2.py --test
```

### Stress Testing
```bash
python tests/test_stress_with_report.py
```

### Dialogue Testing
```bash
python collaborative_test.py 1  # By scenario number
python collaborative_test.py "Забывчивая бабушка"  # By name
```

## 📊 Architecture Diagrams

🎨 **[View Interactive Diagrams](https://shao3d.github.io/Ukido_DynContInj/)** - with zoom, pan, and navigation!

### Processing States
```mermaid
stateDiagram-v2
    [*] --> Initial: User sends message
    Initial --> SocialCheck: Check patterns
    SocialCheck --> PureSocial: Social only
    SocialCheck --> BusinessCheck: Has business intent
    PureSocial --> QuickResponse: Generate social response
    QuickResponse --> [*]: Return immediately
    BusinessCheck --> RouterProcessing: Send to Gemini
    RouterProcessing --> Success: Valid business query
    RouterProcessing --> Offtopic: Not about school
    RouterProcessing --> NeedSimplification: Too complex
    Success --> GenerateResponse: Send to Claude
    GenerateResponse --> [*]: Return to user
```

### Query Distribution
```mermaid
pie title "Query Types Distribution"
    "Questions about courses" : 35
    "Pricing and discounts" : 25
    "Schedule" : 15
    "Teachers" : 10
    "Social (hello/thanks)" : 10
    "Offtopic" : 5
```

### Data Structure
```mermaid
erDiagram
    USER ||--o{ MESSAGE : sends
    MESSAGE ||--|| RESPONSE : generates
    MESSAGE ||--|| ROUTER_RESULT : processes
    USER ||--|| HISTORY : has
    RESPONSE }o--|| ROUTER_RESULT : uses
```

The architecture diagrams above are created using Mermaid and are automatically rendered by GitHub in the README.
For high-resolution PNG versions, check the `docs/diagrams/` folder.

## 📁 Project Structure

```
├── src/
│   ├── main.py              # FastAPI server & orchestrator
│   ├── router.py             # Gemini intent classifier
│   ├── response_generator.py # Claude response generator
│   ├── history_manager.py    # Conversation history
│   └── social_state.py       # Social intent tracking
├── data/
│   └── documents_compressed/ # Knowledge base (9 documents)
├── tests/
│   ├── integration/          # Integration tests
│   └── reports/              # Test reports
├── docs/
│   ├── architecture/         # Architecture documentation
│   └── diagrams/            # Auto-generated diagrams
└── sandbox_v2.py            # Interactive testing tool
```

## 🔧 Configuration

Key settings in `src/config.py`:
- `HISTORY_LIMIT = 10` - Messages to keep in context
- `TEMPERATURE = 0.7` - Response creativity
- `USE_QUICK_REGEX = False` - Regex pre-processing (disabled)

## 📈 Performance Metrics

- **Response Time**: 5-7 seconds average
- **Cost**: ~$0.0015 per interaction
- **Accuracy**: 95%+ intent classification
- **Context Retention**: Last 10 messages

## 🤝 Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

## 📝 Version History

- **v0.7.6** (2025-08-17): Complete project reorganization
- **v0.7.5**: First 2 sentences rule implementation
- **v0.7.4**: Simplified repetition handling
- **v0.7.0-0.7.3**: Architecture optimizations
- **v0.6.x**: Initial implementation

## 🏫 About Ukido

Ukido is a soft skills school for children aged 7-14, focusing on emotional intelligence, leadership, and communication skills development.

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- Ukido team for domain expertise
- OpenRouter for Claude API access
- Google AI for Gemini API
- FastAPI community for the excellent framework

---

**Built with ❤️ for better parent-school communication**
